fix(genapis): add reasoning models (#5636)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/generative-apis/how-to/query-reasoning-models.mdx

- Python 3.7+ installed on your system

## Querying reasoning language models via the playground

### Accessing the playground

Scaleway provides a web playground for instruct-based models hosted on Generative APIs.

1. Navigate to **Generative APIs** under the **AI** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. The list of models you can query displays.
2. Click the name of the chat model you want to try. Alternatively, click <Icon name="more" /> next to the chat model, and click **Try model** in the menu. Ensure that you choose a model with [reasoning capabilities](/generative-apis/reference-content/supported-models/).

The web playground displays.

### Using the playground

1. Enter a prompt at the bottom of the page, or use one of the suggested prompts in the conversation area.
2. Edit the parameters listed on the right column, for example the default temperature for more or less randomness on the outputs. 
3. Switch models at the top of the page, to observe the capabilities of chat models offered via Generative APIs. 
4. Click **View code** to get code snippets configured according to your settings in the playground.

<Message type="note">

> You cannot currently set values for parameters such as `reasoning_effort`, or access reasoning metadata in the model's output, via the console playground. Query the models programatically as shown below in order to access the full reasoning featureset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot currently set values for parameters such as `reasoning_effort`, or access reasoning metadata in the model's output, via the console playground. Query the models programmatically as shown below in order to access the full reasoning feature set.
```

    ```
    This code sends a message to the model, as well as specifying the effort to make with reasoning, and returns an answer based on your input. The model's reasoning metadata can be accessed as well as its answer, with outputs such as:

    ```python
    Reasoning: The user asks: "Briefly describe a futuristic city with advanced technology and green energy solutions." They want a brief description. Should be concise but vivid. Provide details: architecture, transport, energy, AI, sustainability. Probably a paragraph or a few sentences. Ensure it's brief. Let's produce a short description.
    
    Answer: **Solaris Arcadia** rises from a reclaimed river delta, its skyline a lattice of translucent, self‑healing bioglass towers that
    ```
    </TabsTab>
</Tabs>

## Exceptions and legacy models

Some legacy models such as `deepseek-r1-distill-llama-70b` do not output reasoning data as described above, but make it available in the `content` field of the response inside special tags, as shown in the example below:

```
response.content = "<think> The user asks for questions about mathematics (...) </think>  Answer is 42."
```

> The reasoning content is inside the `<think>`...`</think>` tags, and you can parse the response accordingly to access such content. There is, however, a known bug which can lead to the model to omit the opening `<think>` tag, so we suggest taking care when parsing such outputs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reasoning content is inside the `<think>`...`</think>` tags, and you can parse the response accordingly to access such content. There is, however, a known bug that can lead the model to omit the opening `<think>` tag, so we suggest taking care when parsing such outputs.
```
